As far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not
certain; and as far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality.
    --Albert Einstein
%
To spell out a concrete example, consider a 3-manifold M with positive
Betti number. One would like to show that M admits a map to the 2-sphere
which is "non-trivial", i.e. non-homotopic to the constant map. By a
general nonsense argument, there is a map

    f: M -> K(Z,2)

to the Eilenberg-MacLane space, corresponding to a non-trivial element
in H2(M). Since K(Z,2) is complex projective space and the latter admits
a skeleton structure with no cells in odd dimensions, we can apply the
cellular approximation theorem to conclude that the map f can be pushed
down to the 2-skeleton, which happens to be the 2-sphere.

    --Wikipedia "General Abstract Nonsense" entry
%
It is a profoundly erroneous truism, repeated by all copy-books and by
eminent people when they are making speeches, that we should cultivate the
habit of thinking of what we are doing. The precise opposite is the case.
Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which
we can perform without thinking about them. Operations of thought are like
cavalry charges in a battle--they are strictly limited in number, they
require fresh horses, and must only be made at decisive moments.
	--Alfred North Whitehead, _An Introduction to Mathematics_ (1911)
%
Although everyone has their own interpretation, a good practical
definition is "Nonrepudiation is anything which fails to go away when
you stop believing in it". Put another way, if you can convince a user
that it isn't worth trying to repudiate a signature then you have
nonrepudiation. This can take the form of having them sign a legal
agreement saying they won't try to repudiate any of their signatures,
giving them a smart card and convincing them that it's so secure that
any attempt to repudiate a signature generated with it would be futile,
threatening to kill their kids, or any other method which has the
desired effect.
    -- Peter Gutmann, _X.509 Style Guide_
       http://www.cs.auckland.ac.nz/~pgut001/pubs/x509guide.txt
%
Isomorphisms, automorphisms, and endomorphisms are special types
of homomorphisms.
