I Just Work Here Security Maxim:  No salesperson, engineer, or
executive of a company that sells security products or services is
prepared to answer a significant question about vulnerabilities,
and few potential customers will ever ask them one.
%
Bob Knows a Guy Security Maxim:  Most security products and services
will be chosen by the end-user based on purchase price plus hype,
rumor, innuendo, hearsay, and gossip.
%
Familiarity Security Maxim:  Any security technology becomes more
vulnerable to attacks when it becomes more widely used, and when
it has been used for a longer period of time.
%
Antique Security Maxim:  A security device, system, or program is
most vulnerable near the end of its life.
%
Payoff Security Maxim:  The more money that can be made from
defeating a technology, the more attacks, attackers, and hackers
will appear.
%
I Hate You Security Maxim 1:  The more a given technology is despised
or distrusted, the more attacks, attackers, and hackers will appear.
%
I Hate You Security Maxim 2:  The more a given technology causes
hassles or annoys security personnel, the less effective it will
be.
%
A Priest, a Minister, and a Rabbi Security Maxim:  People lacking
imagination, skepticism, and a sense of humor should not work in
the security field.
%
Mr. Spock Security Maxim:  The effectiveness of a security device,
system, or program is inversely proportional to how angry or upset
people get about the idea that there might be vulnerabilities.
%
Double Edge Sword Security Maxim:  Within a few months of its
availability, new technology helps the bad guys at least as much
as it helps the good guys.
%
Mermaid Security Maxim:  The most common excuse for not fixing
security vulnerabilities is that they simply can't exist.
%
Onion Security Maxim:  The second most common excuse for not fixing
security vulnerabilities is that "we have many layers of security",
i.e., we rely on "Security in Depth".
%
Hopeless Security Maxim:  The third most common excuse for not
fixing security vulnerabilities is that "all security devices,
systems, and programs can be defeated".  (This is typically expressed
by the same person who initially invoked the Mermaid Security
Maxim.)
%
Cryptography is nothing more than a mathematical framework for
discussing the implications of various paranoid delusions.
    -- Don Alvarez
%
Anyone who selects a public CA on a factor other than price fails to
understand the trust models that underlie today's use of CAs
    -- Lucky Green
%
We were somewhere in San Francisco on the edge of the 56th IETF when the drugs
began to take hold.  I remember saying something like "I feel a bit
lightheaded; maybe you should take notes...."  And suddenly there was a
terrible roar all around us and the sky was full of what looked like huge
OIDs, all swooping and screeching and diving around the RFC, which was about a
hundred pages long.  And a voice was screaming: "Holy Jesus!  Where are these
goddamn business cases?"

Then it was quiet again.  My attorney had taken his shirt off and was pouring
beer into his mouth, to facilitate the PKI standards-creation process.  "What
the hell are you yelling about?" he muttered, staring up at the neon lights
with his eyes closed and covered with wraparound Spanish sunglasses.  "Never
mind," I said.  "It's your turn to figure out the interop requirements."  I hit
the brakes and dropped the Great Pile of Paperwork at the side of the room.
No point mentioning those OIDs, I thought.  The poor bastard will see them
soon enough.

We had two bags of X.509 standards, seventy-five pages of PKIX mailing list
printouts, five sheets of high-powered constraints, a saltshaker half-full of
vendor hype, and a whole galaxy of requirements, restrictions, promises,
threats...  Also, a quart of OSI, a quart of LDAP, a case of XML, a pint of
raw X.500, and two dozen PGPs.  Not that we needed all that for the trip, but
once you get into a serious PKI RFC binge, the tendency is to push it as far
as you can.  The only thing that really worried me was the X.500.  There is
nothing in the world more helpless and irresponsible and depraved than a man
in the depths of an X.500 binge, and I knew we'd get into that rotten stuff
pretty soon.
    -- Peter Gutmann, http://www.cs.auckland.ac.nz/~pgut001/misc/minutes.txt
